# Rook

Baseline measurements of the C++ demo with my current 8.2.0 GCC toolchain:

Copying BG to FG, so that BG can keep using bitband: 147us.

Vertex transform: 1.466ms

Edge rendering: 8-12ms depending on angle - mostly constrained by pixel fill
rate.

---

Hazards:

- C is using `-ffast-math`.
- Heavy use of bitbanding.
- Heavy use of half-precision.

Bitband is going to be interesting -- since it involves hardware aliasing. I
think I see how to do it safely (on the outside at least).

---

Refreshing myself on the performance characteristics of the C++ implementation.

I was at least halfway clever with this. Line segments are drawn independently,
but they use indices into a common vertex buffer, which is what gets transformed
-- so that each vertex is only projected once. There's a preprocessing script
that takes care of this.

I'm using `set_line_unclipped`, which skips the Cohen-Sutherland clipping but is
also memory unsafe. Good times. The obvious Rust equivalent would assert that
the line is within the framebuffer instead. (Or just clip it; I'm not sure how
slow clipping is at this point.)

Every vertex projection goes:

    vec3h -> vec3f -> vec4f -> matmul -> vec3f -> z discarded

Knowing GCC it is *likely* that the math for the discarded z row is optimized
out.

As noted above, vertex projection is a tiny fraction of time spent, so. Moving
on.

---

Line drawing.

I wrote a very elaborate, heavily hinted, explicitly-template-specialized line
drawing implementation. On first glance I can see several cases where it's
explicitly using integer overflow, e.g. `while (dy--)`.

I have also special-cased vertical, horizontal, and 45-degree line segments.
This might be useful for a UI rendering library, but for wireframe graphics, I
bet these code paths trigger very rarely, and testing their conditions is likely
a net loss. (I can easily profile this.)

Other than that, this is a pretty reasonable DDA implementation.


It's not clear that bitbanding is the best way to implement this. For lines that
are between horizontal and diagonal, it costs strictly more memory transactions
than an optimized routine would, since each access implies a RMW cycle on the
framebuffer. A horizontal line could be drawn 32 pixels at a time with no RMW,
for a 64x reduction in transactions (and cycles).

However, I suspect I did it this way because *determinism.* This implementation
will be gated by pixel fill count, and is insensitive to model transformations.
It would be super annoying to benchmark a rendered as "fast enough" only to
rotate the model vertical and have the frame rate drop.

---

Ran an analysis of the generated vertices and line segments, and I don't see any
duplication. I mean, my preprocessor was supposed to prevent duplication, but
it's nice that it seems to be working.

---

Fun fact! Removing the special cases for horiz/vert/45 do, in fact, hurt
performance for some test angles. So those stay in.

---

Further fun fact! I continue to be spatially dyslexic, so the C++ codebase uses
the words "left" and "right" interchangeably. Whoops!

---

Well, if this is really a fill rate game, I guess I'd best start with the
filling code.

The C code is basically assembler. It's moving a pointer around. It's unsafe
unless used very carefully. I could gloss the routine into Rust, of course, but
let's think through an idiomatic translation.

The obvious simple translation would pass in a mutable slice and manipulate
indices within it, instead of a pointer. However, the index update algorithm
used by the DDA is juuuust complex enough that I worry the bounds checks would
not get eliminated.

Some prototyping and disassembly shows that, yes, my intuition was correct. We
get bounds checks in the inner loop. (Also, LLVM is absurdly aggressive about
specializing functions to constant parameter values; I'm getting output similar
to my hand-specialized C++ implementation without actually trying.)

---

And if I went all the way in the `unsafe` direction...what guarantees would I
need to ask of the caller? Let's work it out.

`draw_line_unclipped_spec` is always called with nonnegative values of `dx` and
`dy`, not that you'd know it from the types I used. The `XAdj` template
parameter controls the horizontal draw direction, and vertical is always
top-to-bottom.

`dx` and `dy` can totally both be zero. This draws a point.

Otherwise it draws exactly `dmajor` pixels. The intent is that these pixels fall
into the rectangle bounded by:

    /     XAdj = -1   |   XAdj = 1          \
    out - dx         out             out + dx


    out+dy*width-dx  out+dy*width    out+dy*width+dx

For the XAdj=-1 case, just flip `+dx` to `-dx`.

The bounds should be *inclusive.*

So, I would need to validate those four corners before beginning the line, and
separately write some tests for the DDA algorithm.

---

Okay, a slightly cleaned up gloss of the C++ line drawing DDA reads like this:

```rust
pub(crate) unsafe fn draw_line_unclipped_spec(
    mut out: *mut u32,
    dx: u32,
    dy: u32,
    d: Direction,
    width_px: u32,
    x_adv: i32,
) {
    let (dmajor, dminor) = match d {
        Direction::Horizontal => (dx, dy),
        _ => (dy, dx),
    };

    let (major_step, minor_step) = match d {
        Direction::Horizontal => (width_px as i32, x_adv),
        _ => (x_adv, width_px as i32),
    };

    let dminor2 = (dminor * 2) as i32;
    let dmajor2 = (dmajor * 2) as i32;
    let mut error = dminor2 - dmajor as i32;

    *out = 1;

    for _ in 0..dmajor {
        if error >= 0 {
            out = out.offset(minor_step as isize);
            error -= dmajor2;
        }
        error += dminor2;
        out = out.offset(major_step as isize);
        *out = 1;
    }
}
```

I've made `dx` and `dy` unsigned, since they're defined to be nonnegative, and
placed type casts to make Rust happy.

This function is fantastically unsafe, of course.

The codegen looks pretty decent.

The `draw_line_unclipped` routine also glosses pretty neatly; it's only unsafe
because it needs to call the `_spec` variant. If I add bounds checking for both
ends of the line, the function should be safe to call unless I've made an error.

Aside: having the language recognize the concept of integer overflow is really
nice in situations like this. Rather than having to think through how to do the
bounds checking without risk of overflow, I can just use checked arithmetic and
move on. It is verbose, yes, but it's also correct. (I'm a little surprised
there isn't a `Checked` struct equivalent to the `Wrapping` struct.)



