How to represent the interrupt state machine state?

C++ used mutable globals. I need to be able to fill them out from app code and
then update them from interrupts.

The thing about interrupt handlers is, they're not closures. (Pity.) This is why
I had to jump through those callback hoops this weekend. So they have to
materialize their state from somewhere, and `static`s are the obvious choice.

Plus: in the `svd2rust` model, peripherals have owners, and some of them need to
be transferred into the ISRs. (Better yet...some need to be shared, I suspect.)

*Some* of the state is only used by ISRs after being filled out, so we could
transfer ownership of it to the interrupt handler. But other parts are observed.

...although. Might be able to minimize that by changing the approach. Shared
state:

- band list and rasterizers -- replaced by callback
- current line and timing config -- used to detect vblank -- could be replaced
  by an atomic flag maintained by the interrupts.

Neat. So I might be able to transfer ownership of the driver state all the way
into the interrupts, and then transfer it back to reconfigure.

Peripheral use:

- gpiob: used by ISRs to generate vsync. Only used by application code during
  init, and to turn sync outputs on and off.
- gpioe: exclusively app, because interrupts use it indirectly via DMA.
- tim1/3/4, dma2: exclusively ISR after init

So -- it seems like I could "transfer ownership" of the peripherals into the
interrupt handlers if that looks desirable. I would need to turn off sync/video
*from the ISR* in response to an application request, which is honestly the
right way to do it anyway.

Getting the hardware "back" would imply shutting down signal generation and
disabling interrupts, which happens to be exactly what you want for changing
timing -- the main thing you'd need to take hardware back for.

One issue here: there are more than one interrupt. There are in fact, by my
count, three, and they can all preempt one another. But I think they use
different hardwares.

- TIM4 generates the horizontal scan.
  - tim4 - acknowledge interrupt
  - dma2 - clear flags and trigger transfer
  - tim1 - start DRQ timer
  - SCB (to Pend SV - this is almost certainly safe)
  - gpiob - generate vblank
- TIM3 produces the shock absorber.
  - tim3
- PendSV runs rasterizers.
  - dma2: disables stream at start of hblank.
    - is this belt-and-suspenders?
  - dma2: preconfigures stream registers to make starting next stream fast
    - arguably overkill but it's sure pleasant
  - tim1: adjusts timing

PendSV and TIM4 interact with the same hardware, and TIM4 *by design* can
preempt PendSV arbitrarily. However, TIM4 is unlikely to preempt the *part* of
the PendSV handler that touches hardware, which happens right at the beginning,
after TIM4 end-of-active, and before rasterization is invoked.

So, we could have the two ISRs "check out" their resources from a static
`Option` (or an atomic `Option` equivalent) for more obvious correctness, and
any conflict would represent a design error and panic.

"Obvious correctness" is key here -- this is engineering overhead to avoid the
appearance of data races in peripheral interactions, but I'm pretty certain that
there are no such races in the code in practice. Just hard to show that on
paper, and this work would make it easier.


Assuming we want to continue having the ability to shut down video and change
timing, how do we get resources *back* from the ISRs?

Probably the cleanest option would be to have some sort of shutdown flag that
the ISRs observe and then acknowledge.
