# Actually trying to run the thing

After cleaning up a bunch of loose ends, I can start the system up. It
immediately panics, of course. This is good.

Immediate observation: getting a backtrace from a panic doesn't work. Even in a
debug build (a massive, massive debug build) gdb gets into an infinite frame
pointer following loop. So that's frustrating.

On the other hand, symbol demangling works flawlessly. And: I have spent the
past eight years confusing the ITM with the ETM. I don't have any hardware
capable of interacting with the ETM, but the ITM works amazingly well for
getting panic messages and output from the chip. Wish I had known about this
years ago! Thanks, Jorge.

---

Okay so why is it panicking.

In release builds the message is "ISR fired with HW available." In debug builds,
it's "unwrap on an Err value: Contended." The fact that those are different
is...alarming. But hey. They are at least very similar.

According to the PSR in the debug build we're in thread mode. So we're
attempting to `try_lock` and `unwrap` a `SpinLock` in thread mode... I only see
two cases of that, both during `configure_timing` before contention should be
possible. In fact, there are only two calls to `unwrap` in the thread mode
portion of the driver, both during `configure_timing`. Huh.


...both of these could point to spinlocks not actually working. The code looks
alright.


Heeeeeey I notice that I have configured the linker such that it will place Rust
values at address zero. This means we could have valid references that are zero,
which makes nonnull optimization unsound. Lemme go fix that. (Note that putting
the vector table at RAM address zero, as I did in C++, would solve this.)

---

Interesting. By fixing that, the debug build now matches the behavior of the
release build: it panics with "ISR fired without HW available." Yay!

Which ISR is it? xPSR says: 0x2D = 45 = ... `TIM8_TRG_COM_TIM14`? What? That
can't be right.

Oh, right, it's offset by 16 relative to vendor numbering. Man, I'm rusty. 45 -
16 = 29 = TIM3.

So we're panicking in the shock absorber. Great! Did I remember to initialize
it?

No I did not! Like, not *at all*. Well that's reassuring.

If I actually give the shock absorber the timer it needs to do its job, I get a
different panic! Yay! The new panic is:

    HW lock held at ISR: Contended

That's a *different* failure from the `acquire_hw` routine, one that occurs when
we get actual runtime contention between ISRs for use of hardware. Which ISRs?
And which hardware?

The contention appears to be for `HSTATE_HW`, and yet I don't see any actual
*contention* happening. I can do this:

    b acquire_hw
    commands
    p m4vga_rs::vga::HSTATE_HW
    bt 2
    end

and every time we hit `acquire_hw`, including the last one that seems to fail, I
can observe that `locked` is 0.

Oh interesting. The actual panic occurs in vector 0x2D, meaning TIM3, meaning
shock absorber. Aaaand if I go look, `SHOCK_TIMER` is in fact `locked`.

Ways this could happen:

1. ISR getting invoked reentrantly. Making this happen on ARMv7-M is actually
   kind of involved; I think this is unlikely.
2. Memory corruption from stray pointer write or overflow. I have some unsafe
   code, I can't immediately rule this out.
3. Really fantastically broken init routine.

Ah... the `SHOCK_TIMER` spinlock is in fact locked on the *first* spin through.
That points to my setup routine. There is, in fact, a race in the init routine
as written: TIM3's IRQ is likely to fire before we yield control of TIM3.

This race is also present in the C++ code, but is undetectable, since the ISR
will just perform racey accesses to TIM3.

I can avoid this by changing the order of initialization steps:

1. Enable TIM3. Interrupt pends immediately but is not yet enabled.
2. Donate TIM3 to `SHOCK_TIMER`.
3. Enable TIM4's IRQ.
4. Finally, enable TIM3's IRQ.

The order of the last two steps is critical: if I enable TIM3 first, it will
immediately fire, and *idle the CPU waiting for TIM4*, which is not yet enabled.


With that, I get an hsync output waveform that looks right, but vsync toggles
every hblank. Suggests that I forgot to update the vertical state machine... and
indeed I did.

Fixing that too and I have what looks like valid hsync/vsync output!

---

Video output does not appear to work. Let's diagnose.

GPIOE ODR has 0x8A in its high byte. This is also the byte present in
`GLOBAL_SCANOUT_BUFFER[0]`, so that's encouraging. However,
`GLOBAL_WORKING_BUFFER` contains the alternating test pattern I'd expect, and it
doesn't look like it's ever been copied into the scanout buffer.

Oh, hey, I never set `update_scan_buffer` to anything but `false`. In the C++ it
gets set during `rasterize_next_line` when we're not repeating. In the rewrite
of that routine I skipped this.

Oh-ho. I didn't skip it per se, I converted it to a return value, which I
promptly forgot to use. `#[must_use]` to the rescue.

There we go.

Okay! Now the scanout buffer contains the test pattern, but the high bits of ODR
are always zero. (The low bits are often 0xFF, oddly.)

Aaaand huh! The contents of `RASTER_STATE` indeed look like the defaults.

Aaaand that's because I never unlock `IRef`, meaning the rasterizer fails on the
second invocation.

With that fix in place, I can interrupt the system to observe the vertical state
machine doing something reasonable, the scanout buffer filled with the test
pattern... and the ODR being 0.


Since the first byte of the test pattern is 0, I wondered if the DMA transfer
might be getting stalled or hosed. Flipped the order, and now we get 0.15 us of
high video outputs before they fall back to zero, once per scanline. Since DMA
is the only way those pins could go high, that means a lot of things are
working.

The DMA control value is set to `0x0c_03_16_81`. Hand-decoding it we get

    en: true
    dmeie: false
    teie: false
    htie: false
    tcie: false
    pfctrl: false
    dir: 0b10 = M2M

    circ: false
    pinc: true
    minc: true    uhhhhhh should only be one or the other

I had a mis-transcription in the DMA setup routine, where for full-speed
transfers I set both PINC and MINC. I'm honestly amazed this didn't cause more
trouble than it did, since that means it spammed GPIOE with stray writes.

With that fixed, I have the test pattern emerging on the output pins!

---

The timing is pretty close. I adjusted the start-of-video fudge factor to
account for the Rust SAV routine taking -- evidently -- 16 cycles more than the
C++ equivalent. That's actually not bad, given that

1. The C++ code uses `LIKELY` branch hints to reduce the straight-line latency
   from interrupt entry to start of DMA; the Rust doesn't bother.

2. The Rust code has to acquire no less than two spinlocks to start video; the
   C++ happily races. (This includes memory barriers.)

3. The C++ ISR is aligned and placed in RAM. The Rust ISR is misaligned and in
   Flash.

4. The vector table in the Rust program is also in Flash, though -- amusingly --
   the shock absorber vector being adjacent may make that a non-issue.




