# Coordination protocol between ISRs and application code

## Sketch One

Let's consider the shock absorber first.

During timing config, the application configures TIM3. It then stuffs TIM3 into
a `static` where the ISR can see it. (Since TIM3 is a ZST this is really just
setting a flag, but it's a typesafe flag.)

Finally, it enables TIM3's interrupt at the NVIC. (The NVIC likely remains in
application hands... but let's see.)

The application *cannot* shut down TIM3 by revoking access to the TIM3 hardware!
The ISR needs hardware access to acknowledge the interrupt. Without this, it
will repeat forever.

Instead, the application needs to request shutdown somewhere else, presumably by
setting a `static` `AtomicBool`. The TIM3 ISR checks this flag as its last act.
If it discovers the flag set, it needs to ensure that it won't run again.

The *best* way to achieve this is with the `disable_irq` dance from the C++
demos:

- Disable the IRQ at NVIC. Barrier. ISR can now not execute anew.
- Put the peripheral into reset. This is an incredibly high handed way of
  ensuring it won't generate new interrupts. Could also probably just turn off
  the interrupt flag at the peripheral. Barrier.
- Clear pending IRQ at NVIC. Barrier.

...but if we do that from the IRQ, we need NVIC access.

I'm not particularly concerned about races accessing NVIC. It's very well
designed to permit atomic concurrent access to the enable and pending flags.

Let's *not* put the peripheral into reset from its own ISR, that seems tres
sketch.


Okay, startup procedure as proposed:

1. Configure peripheral.
1. Enable interrupt generation at peripheral.
1. Transfer ownership of peripheral to ISR.
1. Clear ISR shutdown request / acknowledge flags.
1. Enable peripheral interrupt at NVIC.

Shutdown procedure as proposed:

1. Set ISR shutdown request flag.
1. ISR: on next execution, do work and then notice flag set.
1. ISR: disable interrupt generation at peripheral.
1. ISR: disable own IRQ at NVIC.
1. ISR: barrier
1. ISR: set shutdown acknowledge flag.
1. Observe shutdown acknowledge flag.
1. Clear pending IRQ. Barrier.
1. Retake ownership of peripheral, perhaps reset it.


Note that PendSV is a little different, since it doesn't need to be
enabled/disabled.

We would need to start things up in the following order:

1. Donate hardware to TIM3, TIM4, PendSV.
2. Enable TIM3.
3. Enable TIM4. (will trigger PendSV)

Shutdown:

1. Shut down TIM4. (will stop triggering PendSV)
2. Shut down TIM3.
3. Revoke hardware from all three.

Getting the order wrong between the interrupt handlers won't produce deadlock or
anything, just potential for jitter when the shock absorber gets disabled too
early / started too late.

This proposal is elaborate, and has some constant overhead: each ISR must check
flags. What about an alternative...

## Sketch Two

Each ISR is responsible for putting global state into a consistent state before
exiting. In particular, it should put its own hardware back into the `static`
where it was found.

The startup procedure is the same as above.

The shutdown procedure is lifted from the C++ demos:

1. Disable IRQ at NVIC.
1. Barrier. ISR can no longer preempt but may be pended.
1. Place peripheral into reset.
1. Barrier. Peripheral can no longer produce IRQs.
1. Clear pending IRQ at NVIC. ISR now known not-pending.
1. Revoke hardware from the `static` directly.

I'm assuming here that the `static` is essentially -- or exactly -- a

    SpinLock<Option<HW>>

An ISR could defeat this by storing a `SpinLockGuard` in a `static` somewhere
(or, for that matter, by leaking one). Either would represent a programmer error
and should panic.


