# Porting `rotozoom`

This is actually a pretty simple demo, but it relies on a bunch of vector math I
haven't implemented. Let's see if I can't find a `no_std` crate and not roll it
all by hand this time.

---

The demo itself uses a full-screen 4x4 subsampled direct color framebuffer. I've
recently implemented direct color framebuffers for `tunnel`, so that's easy
enough.

---

Going to try the `vek` crate first.

Welp. It's not actually `no_std`. [Issue filed.][1]

[1]: https://github.com/yoanlcq/vek/issues/20

---

`coord` maybe?

`coord` does not appear to provide matrices, and thus likely doesn't actually
implement linear algebra. I wonder what it's intended for?

Oof, not even dot products. Moving on.

---

Aaand that looks like all of them. Really?

Maybe I can use `coord`'s foundation at least?

It turns out to *not* be `no_std` too.

---

Siiiiiiiigh I'm going to have to write my own damn vector library again, aren't
I. Appropriate that it's Groundhog Day today, since I keep doing this.

Okay. MVP then.

`rotozoom` makes use of 2D vectors and 2D augmented coordinates (which is to
say, 3D). We need vector-matrix multiplication and linear interpolation.

2.382ms
2.347ms

3x3 downsampling (in a 792x600 frame to keep things integer) in 4.132ms.

From a CPU perspective the finest square-pixel mode I could do is 2x2 (it would
take approximately 9.23ms) but I can't allocate that much double-buffered RAM.

I could also do e.g. 1x3 or 3x1 but it would be borderline and is likely to look
crappy.

So I could do 2x2 if I (1) wrote a clever rasterizer or (2) had a better way of
coordinating sharing of a single framebuffer.
