(Happy MLK day!)

I think I've gotten `IRef` beaten into shape. It's costlier than it was, but
given that the cheap version couldn't handle fat pointers, so be it. It's still
fairly cheap.

---

Nope! And in fact it cannot work as designed, as far as I can tell.

The problem is rather subtle. I wanted to write this:

    static RASTER: IRef<dyn FnMut(RasterCtx)> = IRef::new();

Note the `dyn`.

My goal was to pass a stack-allocated closure, under very carefully controlled
circumstances, to an interrupt handler, where it would be executed by (fat)
reference. Such a closure should be able to borrow variables from its enclosing
scope -- that's kind of the point.

However, I kept getting a magic additional `'static` bound from nowhere, which
bans that useful class of closures.

It turns out to have nothing to do with the fact that I'm declaring a `static`
object. Oh, no, not at all.

No: the problem is that naming a trait object type like that, outside of the
context of a reference, *generates an automatic `'static` bound.*

This fact is *incredibly difficult to discover.* Near as I can tell it's
undocumented; I found out about it by reading a bug thread on github, where it's
mentioned offhand. Super frustrating.

So. We cannot name the type of the trait object, lest the compiler jump to
conclusions. What about specializing the `IRef` type? So you'd have

    static RASTER: IRef = IRef::new();

then we wind up trying to declare storage inside IRef like this:

    contents: UnsafeCell<Option<NonNull<
        dyn for<'a> FnMut(&'a mut RasterCtx)
        >>>,

aaaand guess what? `rustc` treats this as a trait bound, and `Unsafe::new` is no
longer `const`. (For all I know, it is the auto-generated `'static` that's
breaking things -- that sure looks like a trait bound.)

While I'm doing something pretty strange here, I'm still really frustrated at
the oblique and undocumented error messages I've been getting.

So.

I'll just brute force it.

How do we store a `FnMut` trait object reference? Why, of course:

    contents: UnsafeCell<(usize, usize)>,

Wheeeeeee

With that and some transmuting, we're good.

So, how fragile is this awful contraption? I think we're actually okay.

- We treat the pair of `usize` as opaque and don't assign any particular meaning
  to its contents.
- While we initialize it with zeros, it won't be observed until after being
  `LOADED` with non-zeros.
- Should a closure pointer change size, `transmute` will fail to compile.
- We are not relying on fat pointer reads or writes being atomic.


This approach is unfortunate, though, because of how specialized it is. I have
to hardcode even the closure argument types. This is because the `Fn` traits
aren't stable, so I can't parameterize it on a tuple of argument types.

Unless I pass a tuple.

So the problem there is it's not obvious how to express the HRTB on the
arguments. And I'm having a hard time finding examples on the googles.

Well, whatever -- I don't have to generalize it now.

---

Alright, I've got reasonable-looking (and probably buggy) ports of the
rasterizers. Let's start building from the other direction: `main`.

Or, really, the reset vector.

Before entering `main`, the C++ codebase does some things.

1. Enables granular faults so that everything doesn't appear as HardFault.
2. Turns on floating point, with automatic+lazy stacking.
3. Remaps SRAM1 to appear at 0.


The Cortex-M crates I'm using appear to turn floating point on *for me.*
Specifically, the `cortex_m_rt` crate in its `Reset` function enables the FPU,
but does not turn on automatic+lazy stacking. That's fine, I can do that early
in main.

As far as enabling faults, I can't find any implementation of it in the runtime
crate. I'll plan to do that myself. It's less critical to do this before main in
Rust, vs C++, because there are no static constructors that can fault.

Remapping the SRAM is interesting. For compatibility with the ETL crt0, the
demos do not assume that anything outside of remapped SRAM1 is initialized. This
is a sketchy decision -- initializing would be better. Anyway. Amusingly, I
appear to have directed crt0 to copy initialized data into SRAM at its pre-remap
location, which I then remap. This makes sense, as the crt0 will initialize data
and BSS before invoking *any* custom routines.

`cortex_m_rt` does the opposite. Huh. That seems mildly sketchy; any access to a
`static` from a `preinit` function is undefined behavior.

Because of the absence of static constructors, I can probably remap the RAM very
early in main. That's interesting.

Either way, I'll have to do the remapping by hand -- I don't think any of the
`cortex_m` peripherals API is safe to use before initialized data is
initialized, and I *certainly* can't use them while they haven't been mapped
into their linked addresses! Laaaaaame. ETL does a better job at this.

So in that case I might as well do it in preinit.


Okay, that's done. Now to hack the linker script.

Key features I need to introduce there are:

1. The existence of CCM.
2. Separation of SRAM112 from SRAM16.
3. Stack in CCM.
4. `.local_ram` and `.scan_ram` sections placed in their respective RAMs.
5. Boundary symbols for the arena allocators.

Okay. Done.


The simplest demo in my library is `horiz_tp`, which is also useful to check
timing. Its main reads,

    int main() {
      vga::init();
    
      auto d = vga::arena_make<Demo>();
    
      vga::configure_band_list(d->band);
      vga::configure_timing(vga::timing_vesa_800x600_60hz);
      vga::video_on();
      while (true);
      __builtin_unreachable();
    }

Let's do it.

...wow. So bits of this are still stubbed out, but here is the code for the
*entire* `horiz_tp` demo, not just the main function. (The C++ version has a
separate rasterizer component.)

    let mut cp = cortex_m::peripheral::Peripherals::take().unwrap();
    let p = device::Peripherals::take().unwrap();
    vga::init(&mut cp, &p).with_raster(
        |_, ctx| {
            let mut pixel = 0;
            for t in &mut ctx.target[0..800] {
                *t = pixel;
                pixel ^= 0xFF;
            }
            ctx.target_range = 0..800;
            ctx.repeat_lines = 599;
        },
        |vga| {
            vga.video_on();
            loop {}
        },
    )
