# Racing the beam without data races

I've implemented a simple, and likely unsound, device in `rotozoom` called the
`RaceBuffer`. It manages the race between a renderer (producer) and rasterizer
(consumer) at the scanline level. Should they be in danger of actually having a
data race within a scanline, it panics.

This is potentially really useful, so I'd like to work on its correctness.

## The basic idea

This is a single-producer, single-consumer thread-safe queue. The elements in
the queue are scanlines. Scanlines are merely arrays of bytes, so we treat the
possibility of handing out an "uninitialized" one to the *writer* (really, one
containing last frame's data, as the memory will initially be zeroed) as
acceptable.

Compared to a typical queue of buffers, this one's a little special.

1. For now, it never wraps. There are enough scanlines allocated to the queue to
   service the entire display. The writer starts at the top and goes to the
   bottom, and the reader follows.

2. It has a `reset` operation that bumps the reader and writer back to the top
   of the display. The writer uses this at vblank.

These facts combine to simplify the implementation somewhat, I think, but I
might prove myself wrong.

---

Races to consider:

1. The reader tries to take a line that the writer is *not yet finished with*.
   (Note: the writer taking the line is not enough, it must be *done.*)

2. The writer resets the buffer while the reader is still using part of it.

The initial implementation addresses case (1) but not (2). The strategy for (1)
is:

- Maintain a write watermark indicating the last line to have been completed.
- If the reader requests a line greater than that, panic.
- Instead of a literal `&mut`, give the writer a smart pointer.
- Only advance the write watermark when the smart pointer is *dropped.*

The solution to (2) also involves a smart pointer.

- Maintain a "reader active" flag or count.
  - It can be a flag if we only allow access to one line at a time. This is
    sufficient for rasterizers and might be cheaper.
- When the reader requests a line, set the flag or increment the count.
- Return a smart pointer.
- Clear the flag / decrement the count only when the smart pointer is dropped.
- In the `reset` operation, panic if the flag/count is not zero.

The initial implementation maintains a read counter, but because the buffer
can't wrap, this isn't actually necessary, because:

- The display driver also maintains the line number, for its own purposes, and
  we can access it essentially for free.
- The rules described above maintain the invariant that *all lines in the
  buffer* above the watermark are valid. So the reader can technically
  random-access them without risk of race -- a read watermark is not required to
  ensure correctness.

---

Observation: in the current system, reads are atomic from the perspective of the
writer. That is, they occur in interrupts, while writes occur in thread mode,
and the reader doesn't stash the smart pointer across interrupts. Thus, the
current code is not actually unsound *in the particular use case* but remains
unsound in the general case.

We can actually require that an operation is only called in interrupt context:
by passing a token to the interrupt handler, and requiring it to be provided to
the operation.

We could do the same for the main loop.

Oooh -- and we could prevent a value from escaping a *particular* invocation of
an interrupt handler by passing the token in by-reference, as

    for<'a> &'a Interrupt

and associating any transient values that must not be stored *with the lifetime
of the token*.

I can't decide whether this is super useful or an academic distraction. What
would this enable?

- There's only one user-programmable interrupt in the driver right now, so by
  requiring its token, and requiring some sort of "thread mode" token for
  writes, we could assume that reads always preempt writes.

- By connecting the lifetime of the read smart pointer to the lifetime of the
  token, we could ensure that the smart pointer is dropped or forgotten by the
  time the ISR exits.

- These combined mean no read-flag or read-count maintenance is necessary. Reads
  are effectively atomic from the perspective of the writer, and either succeed
  (by landing under the watermark) or panic.

- The writer still maintains a watermark.

- The reset operation simply clears the watermark, so it's atomic.

Okay, I actually think this is a valuable simplification.
