Man! Rewriting software in Rust keeps showing me how it was working
*accidentally* in C++ -- subject to a bunch of unspecified and unenforced
aliasing and concurrency invariants.

---

Demos need to be able to loan the driver a display list, consisting of scanline
configuration bands and the rasterizer(s) that implement them.

Demos need to be able to get this *back* during vblank, when the driver is not
using it, to make changes.

The rasterizers and bands will be either stack or arena allocated, so there's
some lifetime complications.


Here's one possible structuring:

    fn demo(arena: &Arena, vga: &mut Driver) {
        let mut rast = arena.alloc(MyRasterizer::default());
        let mut bands = [ ... ];

        // The loan to the driver must take place during a nested closure, and
        // not be controlled by an RAII guard, to keep from recreating the issue
        // with scoped_thread.
        vga.scanout(&mut rast, &mut bands, |vga| {
            // This closure gets executed once per frame, by a loop running at
            // thread level. The loop synchronizes to vblank and calls the
            // closure as early in vblank as possible.

            // Called in vblank, this temporarily hands references to the
            // scanout configuration back to the application for editing. If
            // this doesn't complete by the time video output is required, that
            // frame is black (and/or we panic).
            vga.alter(|rast, bands| { ... });

            // Video output will be enabled after the first pass through the
            // closure.
        })
        // Exiting that scope cleanly shuts down video output.
    }

So, that one's problematic because the application needs to do type-specific
things to the rasterizers -- but the types will be erased when they're loaned
back.

    fn demo(arena: &Arena, vga: &mut Driver) {
        // Now the rasterizer is in an "atomic refcell".
        let mut rast = arena.alloc(ARefCell::new(MyRasterizer::default()));
        let mut bands = ARefCell::new([ ... ]);

        // This time the driver gets a *shared* reference to the refcells.
        vga.scanout(&rast, &bands, |vga| {
            // The driver locks its resources during scanout. This will succeed
            // if we do it during vblank.
            {
                let rast = rast.borrow_mut();
                let bands = bands.borrow_mut();
                // do stuff
            }

            // Do things not-during-blank.

            // Video output will be enabled after the first pass through the
            // closure.
        })
        // Exiting that scope cleanly shuts down video output.
    }

Okay, now the application knows the types of things, but loans covariant
references to them to the driver.

The remaining dangerous detail here: we have just loaned references to
stack-allocated objects *to an interrupt handler*. How do we ensure this is
safe?

- Interrupt handler uses a `try_borrow` equivalent when there's a chance that it
  will hit application contention (i.e. at top of frame). Degrades gracefully.

- `scanout` synchronizes with interrupt on exit to reliably take back the loaned
  resources before returning. This will involve some careful atomic swappery.

- `scanout` needs to intercept unwinding.

The problem is basically the same one faced by crossbeam's scoped threads, and
so I can look there for inspiration.

Crossbeam:

- Runs the scope closure under `catch_unwind`.
- Does things related to thread joining.
- Resumes unwinding or returns.

I don't get `catch_unwind` when I'm working `nostd` but I can approximate it, as
noted by Jorge Aparicio: before entering the closure, stack-allocate an object
whose `Drop` impl does the thing I want on panic; if the closure returns
normally, `forget` the object.

(Rather than rolling that my own self, I can probably use the `scopeguard`
crate.)

All this is important for *correctness* but doesn't matter in practice: I'm not
seeing Cortex-M examples with unwinding enabled, so I'll probably be running
with a custom panic handler that halts execution.


---

The signature for the operation I called `scanout` above has turned out to be
something like this:

    pub fn enable_scanout<R>(&mut self,
                             bands: &Spinlock<[rast::Band]>,
                             rasters: &Spinlock<[&mut dyn rast::Raster]>,
                             scope: impl FnMut(&mut Vga<Ready>) -> R)
        -> R

(Note that the `RefCell`-alike has been replaced with a `Mutex`-alike, called
`Spinlock` because that's how it's implemented.)

This signature is bad. There are two spinlocks, which means we could get
deadlock(ish) behavior if we lock them in the wrong order. It also means both
the interrupt handler and user code will need to have logic to deal with the
case where one of these is successfully locked, but the other is contended.

That's silly. There should be just one spinlock.

But! Note the types. The band spinlock is a

    Spinlock<[rast::Band]>

which is a degraded/covariant form of `Spinlock<[rast::Band; SIZE]>` on the
owner side. And the rasters are

    Spinlock<[&mut dyn rast::Raster]>

...meaning a slice (really, a degraded array) of pointers that *themselves* have
erased types. Since the band array and raster array are not expected to be the
same length except in trivial cases, they can't be in the *same* slice. We could
eliminate one Spinlock by moving the two type-erased references into a struct:

    pub struct DisplayList<'b, 'r, 's> {
        pub bands: &'b mut [rast::Band],
        pub rasters: &'r mut [&'s mut dyn rast::Raster],
    }

...but at that point we're having a lifetime parameter party, and the reference
we stash for the interrupt handler is going to be even sillier.

This got me thinking. What if the interrupt handler has no concept of "bands?"
What if it defers scanout to a *single* rasterizer. That rasterizer could be
composite, combining several rasterizers, but the interrupt wouldn't have to
know about that. This means we need to give the interrupt a *single* type-erased
reference to a *single* Spinlock.

This will probably make rasterization faster when the screen isn't split, by
removing tests and branches from the scanout path. That has a nice "pay for what
you use" aspect.

Just need to make sure that user code can still lock the not-type-erased version
of the spinlock and do their type-specific stuff.

Aaaand it appears to be so!

---

Great, so -- now I need to post the spinlock reference somewhere that interrupts
can get to it. This means storing a pointer to stack-allocated data somewhere
`static`, which is obviously a bad idea unless done *very carefully*.

(Note: why not make the SpinLock containing the rasterizer static? Because it
would get type-erased and user code wouldn't be able to get to their rasterizer
anymore.)

---

Heeeey so I notice that `Raster` has only one method. Should it be a closure?
A closure that gets called in interrupt context, a la scoped threads?

How would that look?

There would need to be an outer closure that controls the extent of any loan to
the interrupt:

    vga.begin(|vga| {
        // ...
    })

Just like in the last API. Within that closure, `vga` changes type-state so that
we can't recursively call `begin`.

The operation could take two closures.

    vga.begin(
        |ctx| do_rasterization(ctx),
        |vga| {
            // do stuff while that rasterizer is working.
        },
    )

The rasterization closure would be `FnMut`, while the scope closure would be
`FnOnce`.

This is nice because their *mutable* resource usage has to be mutually
exclusive. So the driver would need to hand a reference to the interrupt closure
through, run the scope, and then spin to take the reference back before
returning.


