# Firming up hardware ownership

It's safe to share STM32F4 peripherals between threads if you do it carefully. I
could create such an API.

And I probably will later.

For now, I'm running with the upstream crate's desire to have hardware
interactions *statically* free of races -- that is, either the hardware
peripheral is owned by one thread at a time, or it's protected by some sort of
lock. This is going to be strictly more conservative than required, but I'm kind
of curious *how* conservative.

Right now, I've got the "hstate" ISR (high priority) and PendSV sharing
peripherals through a `SpinLock`. So far, so good. That burns some cycles on the
*really important latency sensitive* start of active video interrupt path, but I
have a fudge factor constant I can adjust to compensate.

Importantly: I can just make a blanket declaration that any contention for
peripheral access between PendSV and hstate represents a design error. Because
it does. So rather than spinning on contention, the ISRs panic. Problem
"solved."

Some operations that I expose to application code also need to mess with
hardware, however. I do not want these to panic, and I would strongly prefer
that they cannot panic the driver either, at least if used "correctly" (for some
yet undetermined value of "correctly").

In the C++ API these operations are as follows:

- `init` obvs, but that's different.
- `configure_timing` is also an exception case.
- `video_on` / `video_off`: alter pin modes in GPIOE to switch between real
  video output and pulldowns.
  - Note: GPIOE is not technically owned by the ISRs in the current code,
    because -- as in the C++ version -- I just ram its address into the DMA
    controller numerically. It would be fantastic to fix this.
- `sync_on` / `sync_off` are similar but for GPIOB

I can probably omit `sync_{on,off}` as public API. I don't use 'em outside the
driver.

`video_on` and `video_off` are valuable for preventing display glitches in
certain cases. Given their role in *preventing glitches*, it makes sense to call
them during a blanking interval -- probably the vertical blanking interval to
prevent tearing. During the vertical blanking interval, the ISRs need less
access to hardware -- just the ability to acknowledge their own interrupts.

So, if we specify that `video_on` and `video_off` synchronize to the vertical
blanking interval under the hood, they're now safe. They would borrow the ISR's
hardware, locking the spinlock, and go to town. If the spinlock isn't released
by the time the vblank ends... then something is horribly wrong and we panic.

This means we probably need a different `video_on` and `video_off` for internal
use.

---

Sync needs to start up as soon as timing is configured, and that means the
hardware needs to get loaned in at that point. The type system doesn't currently
distinguish this -- we do an Idle -> Ready transition when the rasterizer is
provided, but no transition when timing is configured.

So, oughtta fix that.


