Trying to figure out how much of m4vgalib's API surface area is obsolescent or
unused. Certainly there are features that are only used in Glitch.

Specifically, I'm looking for cases where

- `offset` isn't 0
- `cycles_per_pixel` is changed
- `repeat_lines` is changed

in public demos:

- `SolidColor` adjusts `cycles_per_pixel` to create a single pixel covering the
  entire screen, reducing DMA traffic.
- `Palette8` and `Direct` have configurable scale in X and Y
- Some rasterizers adjust `repeat_lines` to cope with a start line that isn't an
  even multiple of their Y scale.

in Glitch:

- `Vector3D` can scale X and Y, adjusting `cycles_per_pixel` and `repeat_lines`
- `Nothing` forces `repeat_lines` to a large number to save CPU
- `StartGlitcher` messes with `offset`

My NES-style graphics demo doesn't actually use `offset` -- it pins `m4vgalib`
to a time before it existed.

Notably, Text10x16 implements smooth scrolling *without* using `offset` -- it
messes with the target buffer slice borders instead.

So. Given that most rasterizers don't change these settings, and
`cycles_per_pixel` at least is passed in as a parameter, why don't I put them in
a struct and hand in a mutable reference. The rasterizer can change it if
desired.

---

So, problem in the way I was trying to loan closures to interrupts: I was
attempting to exchange pointers using atomic operations, but a pointer to a
closure is two words long. Rust does not assume the availability of DCAS, and my
target machine certainly doesn't support it.

So: gotta protect the pointer by a separate, atomic-sized locking cell.

Lovely thing about Rust: this bug was caught at compile time, because
`AtomicPtr<T>` requires `T: Sized`. Nice.
