# Porting the `xor_pattern` demo

The `xor_pattern` demo is a lot like the `horiz_tp` demo, except that:

1. It uses an assembly-language rasterizer routine. (Though...need it?)
2. It animates, and thus needs to be stateful.

My C++ implementation is a bit baroque: seven source files, a wee class
hierarchy, etc. I can simplify this.

I'll work from the inside out. The leaf of the dependency graph is the assembly
language rasterizer itself. It is, I think, ridiculous overkill of a lovely
sort: I'm generating one of the oldest graphical patterns, which is trivial to
describe, and using a high-throughput SIMD implementation to do it.

So let's keep that part, it is suitably bonkers. It would be interesting to
rewrite it in safe Rust at some point, but not *very* interesting.

Because inline assembler isn't stable yet (grr), we'll have to make the build
script aware of a new assembly file, generating a new static library. Odd
coupling but easy enough.

Zooming out one level we have the rasterizer. It maintains a frame number and
calls the assembly routine. It detects frame changes by noticing the line number
hitting zero. I don't think I need a direct analog to this.


In fact. I don't need a direct analog to most of it. Here's the entire demo.

    /// A thin Rust wrapper for the assembly routine.
    fn xor_pattern(line_number: usize,
                   col_number: usize,
                   target: &mut [u8]) {
        // The asm routine only writes within bounds if given an even multiple
        // of four words. Round down to ensure this.
        let length = target.len() & !3;
        unsafe {
            xor_pattern_impl(
                line_number,
                col_number,
                target.as_mut_ptr(),
                length,
            )
        }
    }

    let frame = AtomicUsize::new(0);
    vga.with_raster(
        |line, tgt, ctx| {
            let f = frame.load(Ordering::Relaxed);
            xor_pattern(
                (line >> 2) + f,
                f,
                &mut tgt[0..800],
                );
            ctx.target_range = 0..800;  // 800 pixels now valid
        },
        // Run a per-frame loop updating the frame counter.
        |vga| loop {
            vga.sync_to_vblank();
            frame.fetch_add(1, Ordering::Relaxed);

            // Enable outputs. This is technically wasted effort after the first
            // frame, but it costs us little, so.
            vga.video_on();
        })

This ability to stack-allocate driver state safely is kind of a mind-warp.
Almost seems like I could replace the entire CCM arena of the C++ codebase with
a very large stack. (We'd still need a separate way to allocate things in SRAM1,
of course.)

Oh, cool, it panics. I thought that seemed awfully easy. But no surprise here:

    panicked at 'not yet implemented', src/vga/mod.rs:130:9

Exactly right, past-me! This is our first time trying to use `sync_to_vblank`
and it simply doesn't exist. Fixing that...

And now we appear to be getting a valid XOR pattern! (I say "appear" because I
haven't actually connected this code to a monitor yet -- I'm squinting at the
waveforms through my Logic Pro.)

---

Okay, so: in the interest of golfing the line count, and in recognition of the
fact that *most* of my demos don't perform hardware access other than through
the graphics driver, I've added a simplified `init` operation.
