The modern demos turn video on at the *end* of their rendering loops, because
it's idempotent and keeps them from flashing a frame of glitchy nonsense when
changing modes. I could factor such a pattern out.

I need to be able to give the driver (1) a table of rasterizers, and (2) a table
of bands citing those rasterizers. C++ used pointers. I could mandate the use of
`Rc`, but `Rc` uses the heap and I don't. Indices are the obvious choice.

Ideally, we could swap both out at any frame without intervening garbage. Some
demos also mutate the bands, which has potential for data races; probably better
to synchronize with vblank, disengage the bands, edit them, and re-engage them
before start of video.

The driver probably wants to have exclusive control of the rasterizers while
video is on (i.e. `&mut`). But we need to interact with rasterizers to do things
like pend buffer flips. This suggests shared references on both sides and
interior mutability where required. (Note: most rasterizers don't need it for
rasterization, but do need it for other APIs.)

That probably makes sense anyway, since the driver is effectively a separate
thread.


Huh. As a result, rasterizers probably need to be `Sync`.


Iiiiiiinteresting -- I could use a refcell to coordinate accesses between the
driver interrupts and the main thread, without glitchy races. Is this a good
idea? Not sure...

Situation: the rasterizer owns the framebuffer. We would like to be able to
mutate the framebuffer, because obviously. We have two options.

1. Wait for vblank and take the rasterizers back from the driver. Mutate things.
   Give them back. This may be more expensive.

2. Wait for vblank and check the rasterizers out of a refcell. Mutate things.
   Release them.

In both cases, if we're not done by the time video starts, the driver can detect
it and render black.

I suppose it comes down to ergonomics -- which is most convenient for demos? In
practice, most of my demos are content to configure the band list and
rasterizers once, and occasionally tweak them.

---

Is my arena API safe?

Objects allocated in the arena live for exactly as long as their controlling
Box. The key detail of the API is that the borrow checker will enforce,
statically, that no Boxes can exist before we're allowed to either reset or
destroy the arena.

References within the boxes borrow the boxes, so that's probably fine.

---

One alternative is to explicitly divide state into state used during scanout,
and state that is safe to touch during scanout. For example, transfer ownership
of the foreground framebuffer to the driver and keep working with the
background. This is probably the rustiest way of doing it.

A program could get access to the scanout state during vblank and make any
necessary changes to it, e.g. swapping a buffer. It would then give it up and be
left with whatever other pieces it's got.


