Let's construct this from the interrupts out. What does the interface between
the hsync interrupt handler and the rasterizer look like?

It's basically the `rasterize` function from the C++ API. Its responsibility is,
based on some unspecified data stored by the rasterizer, to fill in a scanout
buffer and define its geometry.


It seems apparent that the driver, rather than being a blob of static state as
it was in C++, ought to be an actual data structure. There's the user-facing
data structure (something like a `Vga`) that provides the user-facing API, but
what about the interrupt?

Interrupts are inherently global. When the interrupts occur, they need to be
able to find (easily, because performance) their state. This suggests that (1)
we only allow a single instance of the driver to exist dynamically, and (2) it
makes itself known somehow, e.g. by registering in a static.

Alternatively: the "instance" of the driver is a very thin wrapper around state
that was always static.


Some of the driver state is entirely owned by the interrupt and never interacts
with threads:

1. The working and scanout buffers.
2. The timing state machines, including current-band.
3. The description of the buffer shape.

We can use scoping to ensure that these aren't accessible outside the interrupt
handlers, and a small amount of unsafe code to handle the accesses.

The interaction points are:

1. The refcell-like abstractions that let the application alter the rasterizers
   and bands during vblank.
2. Similarly, the facility that lets the application configure rasterizers and
   bands to start video output, and take them back to stop.
3. Semaphores allowing the application to sync to vblank.
4. Initialization, and particularly accepting peripherals from the application
   startup code.

These will take a bit more work.


For the display list (rasterizers+bands): we need a container that has two
states.

1. Empty.
2. Loaded by the application.

The "load" operation fills out the contents of the container and then
transitions to `loaded` using release ordering.

The "unload" operation swaps to `empty` using acquire ordering, and then moves
the contents of the container out.

The invariant we maintain: the application is not going to mess with the
contents of the container while the state can be observed as `loaded`.

The interrupt checks the state. If it's loaded, the interrupt owns the contents.
Because the application cannot preempt the interrupt, the interrupt does not
need to record its ownership.


