The demos essentially consist of two concurrent threads. I've noted this before,
but this has implications for ownership in Rust.

There's the interrupt-driven portion, and the background portion.

The interrupt driven portion owns the scanout buffer, the working buffer, and
whatever parts of rasterizer state are needed to draw the current line.

There are also driver components at the background level that own e.g. the back
buffer being slowly drawn into for next frame.

It probably makes sense to split the current "rasterizer" in half along these
lines, and do explicit transfer of ownership between halves.


Consider the bitmap rasterizer. Its rasterize function combines several
functions:

1. Flipping framebuffers at the start of its region. This is done to synchronize
   the pended flip with the start of rendering.

2. Computing addresses and handing them to the assembly language routines.

Task 1 could be performed during vblank, instead of on the first line. Either
way, the key is to perform it while we know the interrupts are not going to
occur.

Or, more specifically, while interrupts are not going to access shared state. We
could ensure this by using something like a RefCell -- if we check out its
contents during vblank, and check them back in before rendering, everything is
fine. Otherwise, if we're still holding the contents when rasterization starts,
the driver outputs black (or a visible error pattern).

We can't *literally* use a RefCell because they're not thread-safe. But I can
cook up a simple replacement. Essentially a Mutex without blocking. There's an
`atomic_refcell` crate online but its semantics are all wrong (it panics on
conflict, where I want `None`).


Let's accept a restriction: If we want to swap rasterizers or rewrite band
boundaries, we can do that during vblank -- not during scanout, even if it would
be fun.

So, at start-of-video, the driver interrupt would "take" ownership of all this
stuff by setting the ref flag. It would not release the flag until end of video.
Any attempts by the application to access that state during scanout will fail.
The application can get to the state by waiting for vblank.

At vblank, it can alter the rasterizer/bands -- though *replacing* them would be
a different matter.

---

We need to loan the driver a band list. (And rasterizers, but let's focus on the
band list for now.) Something like:

    let my_band_list = make_band_list();
    vga.use_bands(&my_band_list, |vga| {
        // do rendery stuff here, but can't touch the band list or replace it.
    });
    // Now it can be replaced.

If we have to do this every frame, it's vaguely analogous to imgui. However, you
probably don't want to do this every frame, because I'd want to turn video off
whenever the band list is taken away, but only turn it *on* at the *end* of
rendering a frame.
